# Optimal-Targeting-MobileAds
TZ Gaming: Optimal Targeting of Mobile Ads

As a developer of games for mobile devices TZ gaming has achieved strong growth of its customer base. A
prominent source of new customers has come from ads displayed through the Vneta ad-network. A mobile-ad
network is a technology platform that serves as a broker between (1) app developers (or publishers) looking
to sell ad space and (2) a group of advertisers.

App developers sell “impressions”, i.e., a space where an ad can be shown, through the Vneta network to
companies such as TZ gaming looking to advertise to app users. Vneta acts as a broker for approximately
50 millions impressions/ads per day.

TZ gaming uses ads to appeal to prospective customers for their games. They generally use short (15
sec) video ads that help to emphasize the dynamic nature of the games. In the past, TZ has been able
to, approximately, break-even on ad-spend with Vneta when calculating the benefits that can be directly
attributed to ad click-through. TZ, however, believes there are additional, longer-term, benefits from these
ads such as brand awareness, etc. that are harder to quantify.

Currently, Vneta provides only very limited targeting of ads to app users but is planning to start offering
behavioral targeting to advertisers for a fee. Specifically, two options are under consideration: (a) Provide
access to data that advertisers can use to determine which impressions they want to bid on or (b) Advertisers
pay Vneta a data science consultancy feel to conduct data-driven targeting on the advertisers behalf.

As Vneta is developing this new business model, it has decided to work with TZ as a partner and has shared
behavioral information linked to 115,488 recent impressions used to show TZ ads. Vneta have also provided
a set or predictions based on their own (proprietary) algorithm that they intend to use as part of their data
science consulting service.

Matt Huateng, the CEO of TZ gaming, is intrigued by the potential for data science to enhance the efficiency
of targeted advertising on mobile devices. However, he is not convinced that the consulting services offered
by Vneta will be worth the money for future ad campaigns. He has asked you to do some initial analyses on
the provided data and compare the generated predictions to Vneta’s recommendations. The following three
options need to be evaluated to determine the best path forward.

Options:
1. No targeting (i.e., continue with the current approach)
2. Use predictions from a logistic regression model for ad targeting
3. Use predictions generated by Vneta for ad targeting

The assumptions used for the analysis are as follows:

•Targeting of impressions to consumers covered by the Vneta ad-network to date has been (approxi-
mately) random

•Cost per 1,000 video impressions (CPM) is $10

•Conversion to sign-up as a TZ game player after clicking on an ad is 5%

•The expected CLV of customers that sign-up with TZ after clicking on an ad is approximately $25

•The price charged for the data by Vneta is $50K

•The price charged for the data science consulting services by Vneta is $150K

Approach:

•Use the 87,535 rows in the data with “training == ‘train’ ” to estimate a model. Then generate
predictions for all 115,488 rows in the dataset

•Options 1-3 should be evaluated only on the predictions generated for the 27,953 rows in the data with
“training == ‘test’ ”. These are the observations that were not used to estimate your model

•Extrapolate the cost and benefits for options 1-3 above for an upcoming advertising campaign where
TZ will commit to purchase 20-million impressions from Vneta

Although TZ gaming has used RFM for targeting existing customers this approach is not appropriate for
prospective customers. Instead, you have decided to use logistic regression. This is a powerful and widely
used tool to model consumer response. It is similar to linear regression but the key difference is that the
response variable is binary (e.g., click or no-click) rather than continuous. For each impression, the logistic
regression model will predict the probability of click-through, which can be used for ad targeting. Like
linear regression, you can include both continuous and categorical predictors in your model as explanatory
variables.

Matt is eager to assess the value of logistic regression as a method to predict ad click-through and target
prospects and has asked you to complete the following analyses.

**Data description**

Information about the sample of 115,488 impressions is in the R dataset tz_gaming.rds (or python dataset
tz_gaming.pkl) in the data/R (data/python) directory in the GitLab repo. Each row in the dataset represents
an impression that showed a TZ ad. All explanatory variables are created by Vneta based on one month
tracking history of users, apps, and ads. The available variables are described below.

•training – Dummy variable that splits the dataset into a training (“train”) and a test (“test”) set

•inum – Impression number

•click – Click indicator for the TZ ad served in the impression. Equals “yes” if the ad was clicked and
“no” otherwise

•time – The hour of the day in which the impression occurred (1-24). For example, “2” indicates the
impression occurred between 1 am and 2 am

•time_fct – Same as time but coded as categorical

•app – The app in which the impression was shown. Ranges from 1 to 49

•mobile_os – Customer’s mobile OS

•id – Anonymized user ID

•impup – Number of past impressions the user has seen in the app

•clup – Number of past impressions the user has clicked on in the app

•ctrup – Past CTR (Click-Through Rate) (x 100) for the user in the app

•impua – Number of past impressions of the TZ ad that the user has seen across all apps

•clua – Number of past impressions of the TZ ad that the user has clicked on across all apps

•ctrua – Past CTR (x 100) of the TZ ad by the user across all apps

•imput – Number of past impressions the user has seen within in the hour

•clut – Number of past impressions the user has clicked on in the hour

•ctrut – Past CTR (x 100) of the user in the hour

•imppat – Number of past impressions that showed the TZ ad in the app in the hour

•clpat – Number of past clicks the TZ ad has received in the app in the hour

•ctrpat – Past CTR (x 100) of the TZ ad in the app in the hour

•rnd – Simulated data from a normal distribution with mean 0 and a standard deviation of 1

•click_vneta – Predicted probability of click per impressions generated by Vneta’s proprietary machine
learning algorithm

The last three letters of a feature name indicate the sources of variation:

•u — denotes user

•t — denotes time

•p — denotes app

•a — denotes ad

Professor Hema Yoganarasimhan (Foster School of Business, University of Washington) and Professor Vin-
cent Nijs, Rady School of Management, UCSD prepared this case to provide material for class discussion
rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of a business situation. Names and data have
been disguised to assure confidentiality. Copyright (c) 2021 by Hema Yoganarasimhan and Vincent Nijs
